Eye contact7:26 PM 10/18/2025.


Have you ever been in class when the teacher asks a question and says she’s going to choose a
student at random to answer?
What does everyone do?
The students who know the answer look straight at the teacher as if to say, “Choose me! Let me
show off how smart I am!”
And the students who don’t know the answer look away from the teacher as if that might make
them invisible.
So, what can we take away from this?
When you refuse to look someone in the eyes, you are essentially “hiding” from them. You are
saying, “I’m not confident in myself and I’m not interested in you.”
And when people get that impression from you, they won’t like you, trust you, or even listen to
you.
I know this because making good eye contact did not come naturally to me (like many other
social skills).
Looking people directly in the eyes made me uncomfortable, so I’d always look away once our
eyes connected.
Maybe I’d look at their lips, or their shirt, or not at them at all. But rarely was I looking into their
eyes.
And guess what? I found it extremely difficult to make strong connections with people.
Nobody ever listened to what I had to say.
Everyone always talked over me.
And I felt alone.
Then I read something that talked about how important eye contact is.
So I gave it a try. But man, it was difficult. I would do it for a few seconds, then look away.
As I got better, I would look for a while, but I had to focus so hard on maintaining eye contact
that I wouldn’t be listening to them, or I’d forget what I was saying. It was a struggle.
And I just felt so awkward looking into peoples’ eyes because I thought that I was making them
uncomfortable.
But then I realized that wasn’t the case at all.
It was completely normal for them.

Let the conversation be about the other person.
Everyone loves to talk about themselves, which includes their jobs, their hobbies, their families,
vacations they’ve taken, places they visited, illnesses they had, and struggles they are facing. As
we listen, the natural tendency is to jump in and start talking about ourselves.
